"Code organization by process" (Anti-pattern documentation) (#12754)
elixir-lang/elixir: lib/elixir/pages/anti-patterns/process-anti-patterns.md

## Code organization by process

> * **Problem:** This anti-pattern refers to code that is unnecessarily organized by processes. A process itself does not represent an anti-pattern, but it should only be used to model runtime properties (e.g., concurrency, access to shared resources, and event scheduling). When a process is used for code organization, it can create bottlenecks in the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Problem:** This anti-pattern refers to code that is unnecessarily organized by processes. A process itself does not represent an anti-pattern, but it should only be used to model runtime properties (e.g., concurrency, access to shared resources, and event scheduling). However, when a process is used for code organization, it can create bottlenecks in the system.
```

> * **Example:** An example of this anti-pattern, as shown below, is a library that implements arithmetic operations (e.g., add, subtract) by means of a `GenSever` process. If the number of calls to this single process grows, this code organization can compromise the system performance, therefore becoming a bottleneck.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Example:** An example of this anti-pattern, as shown below, is a library that implements arithmetic operations (such as `add` and `subtract`) by means of a `GenSever` process. If the number of calls to this single process grows, this code organization can compromise the system performance, therefore becoming a bottleneck.
```

  ```elixir
  defmodule Calculator do
    use GenServer

>     @moduledoc """
>       Calculator that performs two basic arithmetic operations.
>       This code is unnecessarily organized by a GenServer process.
>     """

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    @moduledoc """
    Calculator that performs two basic arithmetic operations.
    This code is unnecessarily organized by a GenServer process.
    """
```

>     @doc """
>       Function to perform the sum of two values.
>     """

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    @doc """
    Performs the sum of two values.
    """
```

    def add(a, b, pid) do
      GenServer.call(pid, {:add, a, b})
    end

    @doc """

>       Function to perform subtraction of two values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Calculates the difference of two values.
```

    """
    def subtract(a, b, pid) do
      GenServer.call(pid, {:subtract, a, b})
    end

>     def init(init_arg) do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    @impl true
    def init(init_arg) do
```

      {:ok, init_arg}
    end

>     def handle_call({:add, a, b}, _from, state) do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    @impl true
    def handle_call({:add, a, b}, _from, state) do
```

      {:reply, a + b, state}
    end

    def handle_call({:subtract, a, b}, _from, state) do
      {:reply, a - b, state}
    end
  end

>   # Start a generic server process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Start the calculator process
```

  iex(1)> {:ok, pid} = GenServer.start_link(Calculator, :init)
  {:ok, #PID<0.132.0>}

>   #...Use examples...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  iex(2)> Calculator.add(1, 5, pid)
  6

  iex(3)> Calculator.subtract(2, 3, pid)
  -1
  ```

> * **Refactoring:** In Elixir, as shown next, code organization must be done only by modules and functions. Whenever possible, a library should not impose specific behavior (such as parallelization) on its clients. It is better to delegate this behavioral decision to the developers of clients, thus increasing the potential for code reuse of a library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Refactoring:** In Elixir, as shown next, code organization must be done only by modules and functions. Whenever possible, a library should not impose specific behavior (such as parallelization) on its users. It is better to delegate this behavioral decision to the developers of clients, thus increasing the potential for code reuse of a library.
```

  ```elixir
  defmodule Calculator do
    def add(a, b) do
      a + b
    end

    def subtract(a, b) do
      a - b
    end
  end

  #...Use examples...

  iex(1)> Calculator.add(1, 5)
  6

  iex(2)> Calculator.subtract(2, 3)
  -1
  ```

## Scattered process interfaces

TODO.

## Unsupervised processes

> * **Problem:** In Elixir, creating a process outside a supervision tree is not an anti-pattern in itself. However, when code creates a large number of long-running processes outside a supervision tree, this can make visibility and monitoring of these processes difficult, preventing developers from fully controlling their applications.

Author: @josevalim I accidentally committed the 'Unsupervised processes' anti-pattern as well before we finalized this PR. As a result, the commit ended up updating the PR. If it's not a problem for you, we can work on both within the same PR. For future ones, I intend to have only one anti-pattern per PR. I believe this will make it more organized. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: It is no problem. I will merge both tomorrow morning. :)

> * **Example:** The following code example seeks to illustrate a library responsible for maintaining a numerical `Counter` through a `GenServer` process outside a supervision tree. Multiple counters can be created simultaneously by a client (one process for each counter), making these unsupervised processes difficult to manage. This can cause problems with the initialization, restart, and shutdown of a system.

Reviewer 3: > This can cause problems with the initialization, restart, and shutdown of a system.

I wonder if this part shouldn't be in the issue rather than the example?

  ```elixir
  defmodule Counter do
    use GenServer

    @moduledoc """
      Global counter implemented through a GenServer process

>       outside a supervision tree.

Reviewer 2: Please remove indentation in docs. :)

    """

    @doc """
      Function to create a counter.
        initial_value: any integer value.
        pid_name: optional parameter to define the process name.

>                   Default is Counter.

Reviewer 3: Maybe documenting the params are a bit overkill here since they are quite obvious?
We can also rename `pid_name` -> `process_name` and then we'll have exactly the same info as just reading the signature, WDYT?

    """
    def start(initial_value, pid_name \\ __MODULE__)
      when is_integer(initial_value) do
      GenServer.start(__MODULE__, initial_value, name: pid_name)
    end

    @doc """
      Function to get the counter's current value.
        pid_name: optional parameter to inform the process name.
                  Default is Counter.
    """
    def get(pid_name \\ __MODULE__) do
      GenServer.call(pid_name, :get)
    end

    @doc """
      Function to changes the counter's current value.
      Returns the updated value.
        value: amount to be added to the counter.
        pid_name: optional parameter to inform the process name.
                  Default is Counter.
    """

>     def bump(value, pid_name \\ __MODULE__) do

Reviewer 3: (Maybe just to be consistent with the "Working with invalid data" anti-pattern)
```suggestion
    def bump(value, pid_name \\ __MODULE__) when is_integer(value) do
```

Reviewer 3: (also, `amount` might be a better name if we want to replace the param doc)

## Code organization by process

> * **Problem:** This anti-pattern refers to code that is unnecessarily organized by processes. A process itself does not represent an anti-pattern, but it should only be used to model runtime properties (e.g., concurrency, access to shared resources, and event scheduling). When a process is used for code organization, it can create bottlenecks in the system.

Reviewer 2: For clarity reasons, we don't use `e.g.` and `i.e.` in our docs: 

```suggestion
* **Problem:** This anti-pattern refers to code that is unnecessarily organized by processes. A process itself does not represent an anti-pattern, but it should only be used to model runtime properties (for example, concurrency, access to shared resources, and event scheduling). When a process is used for code organization, it can create bottlenecks in the system.
```

:)

> * **Example:** An example of this anti-pattern, as shown below, is a library that implements arithmetic operations (e.g., add, subtract) by means of a `GenSever` process. If the number of calls to this single process grows, this code organization can compromise the system performance, therefore becoming a bottleneck.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Example:** An example of this anti-pattern, as shown below, is a library that implements arithmetic operations (such as add, subtract) by means of a `GenSever` process. If the number of calls to this single process grows, this code organization can compromise the system performance, therefore becoming a bottleneck.
```

Author: @josevalim (such as `add` and `subtract`) ?

Reviewer 3: > (such as `add` and `subtract`) ?

I think that's better 👍

  ```elixir
  defmodule Calculator do
    use GenServer

>     @moduledoc """
>       Calculator that performs two basic arithmetic operations.
>       This code is unnecessarily organized by a GenServer process.
>     """
> 
>     @doc """
>       Function to perform the sum of two values.
>     """
>     def add(a, b, pid) do
>       GenServer.call(pid, {:add, a, b})
>     end
> 
>     @doc """
>       Function to perform subtraction of two values.
>     """

Reviewer 2: Don't indent inside docs. :)

```suggestion
    @moduledoc """
    Calculator that performs two basic arithmetic operations.
    This code is unnecessarily organized by a GenServer process.
    """

    @doc """
    Function to perform the sum of two values.
    """
    def add(a, b, pid) do
      GenServer.call(pid, {:add, a, b})
    end

    @doc """
    Function to perform subtraction of two values.
    """
```

    def subtract(a, b, pid) do
      GenServer.call(pid, {:subtract, a, b})
    end

    def init(init_arg) do
      {:ok, init_arg}
    end

    def handle_call({:add, a, b}, _from, state) do
      {:reply, a + b, state}
    end

    def handle_call({:subtract, a, b}, _from, state) do
      {:reply, a - b, state}
    end
  end

  # Start a generic server process
  iex(1)> {:ok, pid} = GenServer.start_link(Calculator, :init)
  {:ok, #PID<0.132.0>}

  #...Use examples...
  iex(2)> Calculator.add(1, 5, pid)
  6

  iex(3)> Calculator.subtract(2, 3, pid)
  -1
  ```

> * **Refactoring:** In Elixir, as shown next, code organization must be done only by modules and functions. Whenever possible, a library should not impose specific behavior (such as parallelization) on its clients. It is better to delegate this behavioral decision to the developers of clients, thus increasing the potential for code reuse of a library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Refactoring:** In Elixir, as shown next, code organization must be done only by modules and functions. Whenever possible, a library should not impose specific behavior (such as parallelization) on its clients. It is better to delegate this behavioral decision to callers, thus increasing the potential for code reuse of a library.
```
